Add new 1.17 blogpost (#265)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2024/10/kubewarden-1-17-release.md

---
title: Kubewarden 1.17 release
authors:
  - Víctor Cuadrado Juan

> date: 2024-09-27

Author: to be changed.

expiration date. Care is taken to ensure a valid overlap of old and new
certificates, and removal of old certificates as soon as possible for security
reasons.

So, cert-manager can now be removed if it was installed as a dependency of
Kubewarden. It can be left installed if it is being used for other workloads.

The v1.17 Helm chart also contains post-install and post-upgrade hooks to
perform the needed cleanups of leftover Secrets (`webhook-secret-cert`, now
`kubewarden-webhook-secret-cert`) when upgrading to v1.17.

## New policy types: Policy Groups

Starting from V1.17, the Kubewarden stack now supports 2 new Kubernetes Custom
Resources:

- **AdmissionPolicyGroups**: Namespaced policy comprised of several policies.
- **ClusterAdmissionPolicyGroups**: Clusterwide policy comprised of several policies.

These new Policy Groups resources define a policy comprised of several policies and
their policy settings, and they perform a combined evaluation of those multiple
policies using logical operators.

This reuses existing policies, reducing the need for custom policy creation,
and providing complex logic while at the same time reducing complexity (thanks

> to using existing policies, or for example using CEL via cel-policy).

Reviewer: I would add a link to the policy. Just to give user easy access and promote it.

Author: True, done with https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/265/commits/a9dbd6f176dda42b8cd37cf585c1023c75226e45.

you can read their
[explanation](https://docs.kubewarden.io/explanations/policy-groups) and an
in-depth [how-to](https://docs.kubewarden.io/next/howtos/policy-groups) on the
docs for these resources.

Stay tuned for a new deep dive blog post!

## shortNames for our CRDs

Kubernetes supports short names for CRDs, and with the new PolicyGroups
feature, we think it's the perfect moment to include them. Short names simplify
day-to-day operations. For example, to list ClusterAdmissionPolicies:

```
kubectl get cap
NAME                        POLICY SERVER   MUTATING   BACKGROUNDAUDIT   MODE      OBSERVED MODE   STATUS   AGE
do-not-run-as-root          default         true       true              monitor   monitor         active   3d
do-not-share-host-paths     default         false      true              monitor   monitor         active   3d
...
```

That's a lot better, right?

Here's our shortened resource types:

| Resource                     | shortName |
| ---------------------------- | --------- |
| AdmissionPolicies            | **ap**    |
| ClusterAdmissionPolicies     | **cap**   |
| AdmissionPolicyGroups        | **apg**   |
| ClusterAdmissionPolicyGroups | **capg**  |

> | PolicyServers                | **ps**    |

Reviewer: As we discussed during the planning, this will land in the next release. Thus, we need to remove this section.

Author: Dropped with https://github.com/kubewarden/kubewarden.io/pull/265/commits/7a41a98c9f6e8c3a2dfe224dd1b2b6d1942ed951.

---
title: Kubewarden 1.17 release
authors:
  - Víctor Cuadrado Juan
date: 2024-09-27
---

We are thrilled to announce the release of Kubewarden v1.17.0. This release is
packed with big features, let's have a look!

## Certificate rotation & removal of cert-manager dependency

Starting from this release, the Kubewarden stack takes care of creating and
rotating all the needed TLS certificates and certificate authorities.

Kubewarden, by virtue of connecting to the Kubernetes API server, needs TLS
certificates for both the kubewarden-controller (when creating webhooks for its
policies) and for the PolicyServers (so they can report their results to the
Webhook API server).

Up until v1.16, the certificate authority (CA) and leaf certificates used by
kubewarden-controller to connect to the Webhooks API were generated by
cert-manager.

> The certificates used to register out PolicyServers with the Kubernetes Webhook

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The certificates used to register our PolicyServers with the Kubernetes Webhook
```

> API were and continue to be generated by our controller, and our controller
> generates a self-signed Certificate Authority that is used to sign all the
> PolicyServer certs. These had a 10 year expiration date. Certificate rotation
> for all was left to the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API were, and continue to be, generated by our controller. Our controller
generates a self-signed Certificate Authority that is used to sign all the
PolicyServer certificates. These had a 10 year expiration date. Certificate rotation
for all these was left to the user.
```

From v1.17 onwards, we generate the CA and certificate on Helm install or
upgrade if not present, under `kubewarden-ca` Secret. This means we don't
depend on cert-manager anymore. The CA defaults to a 10 year expiration date,
and the leaf certificates to a 1 year expiration date.

In addition, now the kubewarden-controller rotates both the CA and the needed
certificates for the webhooks and PolicyServers on its own, 1 month before the
expiration date. Care is taken to ensure a valid overlap of old and new
certificates, and removal of old certificates as soon as possible for security
reasons.

> Hence, cert-manager can now be removed if it was installed just because of
> Kubewarden. In case it is being used for other workloads, it can be left
> installed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So, cert-manager can now be removed if it was installed as a dependency of
Kubewarden. It can be left installed if it is being used for other workloads.
```

The v1.17 Helm chart also contains post-install and post-upgrade hooks to

> perform the needed cleanups of leftover Secrets (`webhook-secret-cert`, now

Reviewer 2: Does 'Secrets' need capitalization. I'm not sure, fine if it's best.

Author: In this case yes, as it's the Kubernetes Secrets resources.

`kubewarden-webhook-secret-cert`) when upgrading to v1.17.

## New policy types: Policy Groups

Starting from V1.17, the Kubewarden stack now supports 2 new Kubernetes Custom
Resources:

- **AdmissionPolicyGroups**: Namespaced policy comprised of several policies.
- **ClusterAdmissionPolicyGroups**: Clusterwide policy comprised of several policies.

These new Policy Groups resources define a policy comprised of several policies and
their policy settings, and they perform a combined evaluation of those multiple
policies using logical operators.

This reuses existing policies, reducing the need for custom policy creation,
and providing complex logic while at the same time reducing complexity (thanks

> to existing policies, or for example using CEL via cel-policy).

Reviewer 2: I think that needs a 'using' there?
```suggestion
to using existing policies, or for example using CEL via cel-policy).
```

in-depth [how-to](https://docs.kubewarden.io/next/howtos/policy-groups) on the
docs for these resources.

Stay tuned for a new deep dive blog post!

## shortNames for our CRDs

Kubernetes supports short names for CRDs, and with the new PolicyGroups
feature, we think it's the perfect moment to include them. Short names simplify
day-to-day operations. For example, to list ClusterAdmissionPolicies:

```
kubectl get cap
NAME                        POLICY SERVER   MUTATING   BACKGROUNDAUDIT   MODE      OBSERVED MODE   STATUS   AGE
do-not-run-as-root          default         true       true              monitor   monitor         active   3d
do-not-share-host-paths     default         false      true              monitor   monitor         active   3d
...
```

That's a lot better, right?

Here's our shortened resource types:

| Resource                     | shortName |
| ---------------------------- | --------- |
| AdmissionPolicies            | **ap**    |
| ClusterAdmissionPolicies     | **cap**   |
| AdmissionPolicyGroups        | **apg**   |
| ClusterAdmissionPolicyGroups | **capg**  |
| PolicyServers                | **ps**    |

## Policy updates

> Through this cycle, we have updated the following policies maintained by us.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During this development cycle, we have updated the following policies maintained by us.
```

### cel-policy

The [cel-policy](https://artifacthub.io/packages/kubewarden/cel-policy/cel-policy),

> our policy that bundles and extends Kubernetes' cel-go library, got nice

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is our policy that bundles and extends Kubernetes' cel-go library, got some nice
```
